MichaelDong/README.md, before:


Student name : Michael Dong

Student ID : 005174781


Week 1 accomplished: 

1.Meet with team members to discuss focusing area. I will focus on backend with MongoDB.

2.Research on MongoDB: MongoDB is a document-based NoSQL database with emphasis on CP system design. There are two ways to achieve high availability. 
One is the master-slave mode, which is the traditional mode that only allows writes on master node and data are copied from master to slave. Master is the single point of failure. The second way is the replica set mode. A replica set is a group of MongoDB servers that maintain the same data set, providing redundancy and increasing data availability. In replica set there are several node roles: the primary, the secondary, the arbiter. The primary node is similar to master node that can read and write. But if current primary node failed, a secondary node will be elected as the new primary node. 

The mechanism is ensured by Paxos related algorithm thus to elect the new primary, majority of nodes must be alive. Arbiter nodes are the nodes that only vote to elect primary but do not store data.

MongoDB provides horizontal scalability through sharding. Sharding distributes data across a cluster of machines. If some sharding server failed, the others are not affected. As data grows, system can be horizontally scaled by adding more sharding servers. However, a sharded server failed, that part of data is forever lost. Besides, computing pressure could be high for one sharding server.



3.Research on MongoDB database architecture:  According to above statements, the best way to implement cloud scaling app with high availabity and data redundancy is to combine sharding and replica set.

Two modes were proposed. 

Proposal 1: three nodes distributed in 3 different availability zones. Each node runs mongos, config server and 3 sharding server. The sharding server are deployed in a way that each node has only one primary sharding server while other two nodes have its corresponding replica set secondary node and arbiter node. This architecture utilize as few as 3 nodes and achieved both scalability and high availability.

Proposal 2: six nodes distributed in 3 different availability zones. In each availability zone, there are two nodes. One of them runs mongos server and a secondary server node. The other node has config server and exactly one primary server and possible secondary or arbiter servers.  In such a way load for mongos server and primar server is divide into two instances in the same availability zone since they are the ones with heaviest load.


Proposal are depicted in images.


Week2 accomplished:

1. Discussed with teammates and decided to adopt the three instances architecture because it is of intermediate  complexity while six instance architecture is too complex for this project.

2. Set up deployment environment for MongoDB cluster with Hengyu. The environment consists of a VPC with 3 subnets residing in 3 different availability zone. 3 instances will be instantiated in each subnet. A load balancer will be used to balance requests to these servers.

3. Designed backend RESTful API to access data from MongoDB cluster. The API will be powered by Node.js and express framework. There will be a router object for cart, user, movie individually. A user document will contain the id of a cart document. A cart document will contain multiple ids of movie documents. The API will support GET, POST, PUT, DELETE operations on each resource URI.

4. Implementing the backend RESTful API with Xue, now around 80% functionality finished. The backend system now performs well on local MongoDB instance.


Week3 to do:
1. Deploy the MongoDB sharding + replica set cluster on AWS. Write a detailed deployment documentation.
2. Finish slides for extra credit demo.
3. Finish the left functionalities of backend RESTful API implementation.
4. Deploy the backend to MongoDB cluster.


Week3 accomplished:

1. Deployed the proposed architecture 1 MongoDB sharding + replica set cluster with 3 instances on AWS. Each instance is in a different subnet and different availability zone. Each instance is running 5 MongoDB server processes as indicated in the architecture. The 3 instances in all subnet can only be visited by nodes inside the VPC.  A internal load balancer was deployed in the VPC. The load balancer dispatches requests to mongos server at port 20000 on each MongoDB running instance by round robbing. Backend server will connect to the internal load balancer.

2. Enabled sharding of the database "movie" on the cluster. The collection user, movie, cart are designated to shard1, shard2 and shard3 replica set respectively. In each sharding replica set, there is a primary node, a secondary node and an arbiter node. 

3. Finished 95% functionalities of the backend server. The backend server now connect to MongoDB cluster running on AWS instead of local MongoDB instance.

4. Installed and set up supervisor on the backend server. Now the backend server is managed by supervisor. This fixed the issue that the backend server intermittantly stops for unknown reason. Supervisor will restart the server once failure detected.

5. Fixed other schema related issues.

6. Finished slides for extra credit demo.

Week4 to do:

1. Add an order collection and implement its CRUD operation API.

2. Implement CRUD API for the category field.

3. Try to add authentication mechanism of MongoDB cluster.

Commit message:

minor update of static files

MichaelDong/README.md, after:


Student name : Michael Dong

Student ID : 005174781


Week 1 accomplished: 

1.Meet with team members to discuss focusing area. I will focus on backend with MongoDB.

2.Research on MongoDB: MongoDB is a document-based NoSQL database with emphasis on CP system design. There are two ways to achieve high availability. 
One is the master-slave mode, which is the traditional mode that only allows writes on master node and data are copied from master to slave. Master is the single point of failure. The second way is the replica set mode. A replica set is a group of MongoDB servers that maintain the same data set, providing redundancy and increasing data availability. In replica set there are several node roles: the primary, the secondary, the arbiter. The primary node is similar to master node that can read and write. But if current primary node failed, a secondary node will be elected as the new primary node. 

The mechanism is ensured by Paxos related algorithm thus to elect the new primary, majority of nodes must be alive. Arbiter nodes are the nodes that only vote to elect primary but do not store data.

MongoDB provides horizontal scalability through sharding. Sharding distributes data across a cluster of machines. If some sharding server failed, the others are not affected. As data grows, system can be horizontally scaled by adding more sharding servers. However, a sharded server failed, that part of data is forever lost. Besides, computing pressure could be high for one sharding server.



3.Research on MongoDB database architecture:  According to above statements, the best way to implement cloud scaling app with high availabity and data redundancy is to combine sharding and replica set.

Two modes were proposed. 

Proposal 1: three nodes distributed in 3 different availability zones. Each node runs mongos, config server and 3 sharding server. The sharding server are deployed in a way that each node has only one primary sharding server while other two nodes have its corresponding replica set secondary node and arbiter node. This architecture utilize as few as 3 nodes and achieved both scalability and high availability.

Proposal 2: six nodes distributed in 3 different availability zones. In each availability zone, there are two nodes. One of them runs mongos server and a secondary server node. The other node has config server and exactly one primary server and possible secondary or arbiter servers.  In such a way load for mongos server and primar server is divide into two instances in the same availability zone since they are the ones with heaviest load.


Proposal are depicted in images.


Week2 accomplished:

1. Discussed with teammates and decided to adopt the three instances architecture because it is of intermediate  complexity while six instance architecture is too complex for this project.

2. Set up deployment environment for MongoDB cluster with Hengyu. The environment consists of a VPC with 3 subnets residing in 3 different availability zone. 3 instances will be instantiated in each subnet. A load balancer will be used to balance requests to these servers.

3. Designed backend RESTful API to access data from MongoDB cluster. The API will be powered by Node.js and express framework. There will be a router object for cart, user, movie individually. A user document will contain the id of a cart document. A cart document will contain multiple ids of movie documents. The API will support GET, POST, PUT, DELETE operations on each resource URI.

4. Implementing the backend RESTful API with Xue, now around 80% functionality finished. The backend system now performs well on local MongoDB instance.


Week3 to do:
1. Deploy the MongoDB sharding + replica set cluster on AWS. Write a detailed deployment documentation.
2. Finish slides for extra credit demo.
3. Finish the left functionalities of backend RESTful API implementation.
4. Deploy the backend to MongoDB cluster.


Week3 accomplished:

1. Deployed the proposed architecture 1 MongoDB sharding + replica set cluster with 3 instances on AWS. Each instance is in a different subnet and different availability zone. Each instance is running 5 MongoDB server processes as indicated in the architecture. The 3 instances in all subnet can only be visited by nodes inside the VPC.  A internal load balancer was deployed in the VPC. The load balancer dispatches requests to mongos server at port 20000 on each MongoDB running instance by round robbing. Backend server will connect to the internal load balancer.

2. Enabled sharding of the database "movie" on the cluster. The collection user, movie, cart are designated to shard1, shard2 and shard3 replica set respectively. In each sharding replica set, there is a primary node, a secondary node and an arbiter node. 

3. Finished 95% functionalities of the backend server. The backend server now connect to MongoDB cluster running on AWS instead of local MongoDB instance.

4. Installed and set up supervisor on the backend server. Now the backend server is managed by supervisor. This fixed the issue that the backend server intermittantly stops for unknown reason. Supervisor will restart the server once failure detected.

5. Fixed other schema related issues.

6. Finished slides for extra credit demo.


Week4 Accomplished:
1. An order collection was added to the schema of MongoDB backend. Also a CRUD operations API was exposed against the resource "/order". To search order, both "_id" or "userId" can be used.

2. Implemented GET(READ) API for the category field. The category has no corresponding data structure or collection in MongoDB database. It is only a field in the movie document. Thus only a router file is enough. The category API does not allow CREATE, UPDATE or DELETE.

3. Authentication mechanism of MongoDB cluster is in progress. 

4. Tested Partition Tolerance and Consistency property of the MongoDB cluster. On each of the three server instances, use iptables to block access from other two server instances. As expected, the shard servers on the partitioned ec2 instances become unavailable. After recovery, the partitioned servers become consistent with other cluster members. The MongoDB cluster is highly available, scalable and strongly consistent as designed.

5. Fixed bugs or improved design:
  (1)for order schema and routes, change username to userId
  (2)modify the update API for cart to return json data instead of a string
